Safety in Design Framework

Prepared by:  Will Nicholson
              Head of Critical Environments
Project No:   AirTrunk
Issue:        will.nicholson@airtrunk.com
Date          AT-GLOBAL-REF-000027

              Rev 1

              2nd July 2021
TABLE OF CONTENTS

1 Document Control................................................................................................ 3
2. Introduction .......................................................................................................... 4
3 Understanding Safety in Design .......................................................................... 4

  3.2 3.1 What is Safety in Design ......................................................................... 4
  3.3 Who Influences Safety in Design................................................................... 5
  3.4 How to get the most out of Safety in Design.................................................. 7
  3.5 Benefits of Safe Design................................................................................. 7
4 Principles of Safety in Design .............................................................................. 7
5 The 3 Stages in Safety in Design ........................................................................ 8
6 Safety in Design Approach .................................................................................. 9
  6.1 Establish the Context for the Design ............................................................. 9
  6.2 Identify Foreseeable uses of the design ........................................................ 9
  6.3 Complete the Safety in Design Risk Assessment ......................................... 9
  6.4 Communicate and Consult .......................................................................... 13
7 What is the Impact for Designers....................................................................... 13
8 Conclusions ....................................................................................................... 14

AirTrunk framework | Safety in Design  Page | 2
1 DOCUMENT CONTROL

VERSION DATE                           MODIFIED BY  APPROVED BY  SUMMARY OF
                                                                    CHANGE

1.0  5/7/2021 Will Nicholson                        Zak Markovic New document

AirTrunk framework | Safety in Design                            Page | 3
2 INTRODUCTION

 The safety of a Data Centre and ancillary structures applies to all stages in the life cycle
 commencing with the inception stage; through the planning and design stages; followed by the
 construction and commissioning and ongoing operation and maintenance stages; and in certain
 cases, such as OSE replacement, decommissioning.

 The purpose of this framework is to:
       · Present the requirements and obligations for Safety in Design;
       · Outline the roles and responsibilities for Safety in Design for the various parties involved in a
            project;
       · Present the process and tools currently being used within the industry for Safety in Design.

The outcome from this should be:
       · Compliance with legislation requirements
       · Management of risk to be "As Low as Reasonably Practicable" or ALARP.
       · Lower EHS Risk, leading to a safer working environment.
       · Improved construction, operation and maintenance of the facility

3 UNDERSTANDING SAFETY IN DESIGN

3.1 WHAT IS SAFETY IN DESIGN

 Safe design is a process defined as:
     "The integration of hazard identification and risk assessment methods early in the design
     process to eliminate or minimise the risks of injury throughout the life of the product being
     designed. It encompasses all design including facilities, hardware, systems, equipment,
     products, tooling, materials, energy controls, layout, and configuration" (AS&CC 2006)

 SiD is aimed at preventing injuries and disease by considering hazards as early as possible in the
 planning and design process. A safe design approach considers the safety of those who construct,
 operate, clean repair and demolish an asset (the building, structure, plant or equipment) as well as
 those who work in or with it.
 Designers are in a unique position to reduce the risks that arise during the life cycle of the asset
 during the design phase.

 A typical lifecycle for a design is shown below, for which a safety in design approach begins in the
 conceptual and planning phases through to the possible final disposal with an emphasis on making
 choices about design, materials and methods of manufacture or construction required to enhance
 safety.

 Safe design will always be part of a wider set of design objectives, including practicability,
 aesthetics, cost and the functionality of the product. Safe design is the process of successfully
 achieving a balance of these sometimes-competing objectives, without compromising the health
 and safety of those potentially affected by the product over its life.

AirTrunk framework | Safety in Design  Page | 4
                                        Design
                                       Concept

          Recycle                                  Design

Demolish                               Life Cycle          Construct/
                                       of Design
                                       Products            Manufactur
                                                                 e

Maintain/re                                        Supply/Inst
    pair                                                all

                                       Commission
                                           /use

3.2 WHO INFLUENCES SAFETY IN DESIGN

 A range of parties influence the design function at varying phases of the design process including
 but not limited to the following:

       · Design professionals such as architects, engineers, industrial designers.
       · Suppliers (including manufacturers, importers, plant-hire), constructors, installers, and

            trades/maintenance personnel.
       · Other groups who make design decisions, such as clients, developers, builders, owners,

            job managers, health and safety professionals and ergonomics practitioners.
       · Contractors who have a bearing on the safe working practices, particularly where

            innovative techniques are to be used.
       · Personnel who should work or be affected by the plant, building or structure.
       · Government regulators and inspectorates.

AirTrunk framework | Safety in Design                                  Page | 5
Stage   OSE     Tech Consultant Dev GC CET DC Roles
OSE     Vendor                                                            Ops
Design  A
BOD     I       R  R  I  C  I  OSE Product development manager to interface with OSE vendors to ensure that

10%     I                      proposed solutions are safe to integrate, commission, operate and maintain. Consultants
30%     I
                               and Operations specialists to be consulted.
60%     I
                A  R  C  C  I  The BoD is a document that records the general business expectations, performance
90%     I
                               criteria and special requirements as they relate to space, site, and technical design

                               elements. Design Managers to ensure any lessons learned from previous designs are

                               captured in the BOD where applicable. This is done in consultation with DEV and Ops

                               parties.

                A  R  I  C  I  The 10% design defines the basic layout and quantities for the design. As per the BOD

                               DM's to ensure any lessons learned from previous designs are captured in the 10%

                               design where applicable. This is done in consultation with DEV and Ops parties

                A  R  I  C  C The 30% design defines the major design elements of the project in some basic detail.

                               DM's at this point are to conduct a detailed SiD effort, preferably through an independent

                               specialist and in consultation with DEV and Ops representatives. This SiD study will form

                               part of the document handoff to the GC who are responsible for the detailed design

                               elements.

                C  C  A RC  C The 60% detailed design is used to confirm that the project can be constructed and that

                               the submitted plans and specifications will meet the objectives of the project without

                               significant design changes. All previous SiD issues are to be eliminated or mitigated

                               ALARP. GC's are responsible to conduct detailed design workshops including a BIM walk

                               through is to be conducted with all applicable stakeholders to identify safety issues for

                               further action

                C  C  A RC  C The 90% detailed design package is effectively the completed design, ready for

                               construction without further design changes. GC to ensure there is a final confirmation

                               SiD review to ensure that all issues have been resolved, and no further issues introduced

                               as a result of the final design adjustments.
3.3 HOW TO GET THE MOST OUT OF SAFETY IN DESIGN

 Designer's earliest decisions fundamentally affect the health and safety of people who come into
 contact with their design over the life cycle of the asset. These decisions may influence later design
 choices, and considerable rework may be required if it is necessary to unravel earlier decisions. As
 shown on Figure 2, it is important to address health and safety from the very start of a project in
 order to provide the greatest influence in safety. Changing the design philosophy is a lot more than
 design field changes or costs associated with accident management and clean up. The below
 figure demonstrates that while the greatest ability to influence safety on a project occurs at the early
 stages of a project, safety improvements continue through to start up followed by operation and
 maintenance. The designer needs to consider how safety can best be achieved in each of the
 lifecycle phases.

                                   Ability to influence safety on a project

3.4 BENEFITS OF SAFE DESIGN

 Some of the potential benefits of safe design include the following.
       · Better understanding of the design requirements and limitations.
       · Prevention of injury and disease.
       · Improved usability of structures.
       · Improved productivity.
       · Reduced costs.
       · Better prediction and management of production and operational costs
            over the lifecycle of a structure.
       · Compliance with legislation.
       · Innovation, in that safe design demands new thinking.

4 PRINCIPLES OF SAFETY IN DESIGN

 The key elements that impact on implementing SiD are shown on Figure 3 and discussed below.

 Principle 1: Persons with Control ­ personPsRwINhCoIPmLEak1e decisions affecting the design of
                   products, facilities or processes are able to promote health and safety at the source.

                                                                                      Persons in Control

 Principle 2: Product Lifecycle ­ safe design applies to every stage in the lifecycle from
                   conception through to demolition. It involves eliminating hazards or minimising risks as
                   early in the lifecycle as possible.
Principle 3: Systematic Risk Management ­ the application of hazard identification, risk
                 assessment and risk control processes to achieve safe design.

Principle 4: Safe Design Knowledge and Capability ­ should be either demonstrated or acquired
                 by persons with control over design and should reflect the knowledge that a competent
                 designer would be expected to have.

Principle 5: Information Transfer ­ effective communication and documentation
                 of design and risk control information between all persons involved in
                 the phases of the lifecycle is essential for the safe design approach.

5 THREE STAGES OF SAFETY IN DESIGN

There are essentially 3 key stages in the design process that may be affected by the principles of

SiD as follows:

· BoD-10%        This may include feasibility or option studies.

· 30% Pre-design This may include preliminary design.

· 60-90% Design This includes full documentation to allow construction to commence and

                 should include consideration of the procurement, construction, start up

                 and ongoing operation and maintenance of the project.

At each stage of the design process risk identification should take place to eliminate risk or where
this is not possible reduce risk as low as reasonably practicable through the implementation of
control measures.

Typical SiD requirements and examples of safe design considerations for these stages are shown
in the table below.

Safety in Design Requirements

Design           SiD Requirements                Example's of Safe Design Considerations
Stage
Basis of  Identification of critical health and  - Site geology e.g. soft soils
Design    safety related risks that may affect   - Contaminated land
(BOD) -   the viability of the project.          - Emissions from development
10%                                              - Proposed use zoning
30%       Identification of reasonably
Design    foreseeable safety risks with a        - Specification of materials with high durability
          design project associated with the       and low maintenance requirements
60-90%    construction/manufacture,
Design    installation, commission/use,          - Hazardous area classification
          maintenance/repair, demolition and     - Redundancy - Introduction of duplicates to
          disposal.
                                                   allow safe continued operation in the event of
          Focusing on ways in which a design       failure
          can be modified to eliminate or        - Providing permanent safe access to roofs, plant
          reduce issues that may affect the        rooms and windows for maintenance and repair
          ongoing safety of persons involved       purposes such as stairs or walkways with
          in constructing, using, maintaining      guardrails
          (including major asset replacement)    - Taking into consideration ergonomic principles
          or demolishing the design product.       e.g. avoid designing construction activities that
                                                   require work in restricted spaces or designs that
                                                   require repetitive or prolonged movements to
                                                   complete
                                                   Task
                                                 - Eliminating the need for installing temporary
                                                   barriers, by integrated guardrail system along
                                                   roof edges
                                                 - Inclusion of construction access into building
                                                   fabric e.g. removable panels
                                                 - Lifting lugs installed to facilitate the movement
                                                   of heavy items

AirTrunk framework | Safety in Design                                   Page | 8
6 SAFETY IN DESIGN APPROACH

 An approach that can be used for safety in design is as follows:

6.1 ESTABLISH THE CONTEXT FOR THE DESIGN

 Confirming how all of the stakeholders should work together is an integral part in establishing the
 risk management process. The client has similar responsibilities to the designer in the design
 process in relation to transfer of information and making safety decisions since the client has a
 responsibility to provide a safe workplace for the people who should be using the completed
 design.

6.2 IDENTIFY FORESEEABLE USES OF THE DESIGN

 The designer should identify the client's main objectives and outcomes of the design. This information
 is important to establish the intended and foreseeable uses of the design. For example a competent
 designer should expect that a building that has windows would require that the windows to be
 cleaned.

6.3 COMPLETE THE SAFETY IN DESIGN RISK ASSESSMENT

 The Safety in Design risk assessment is normally undertaken in a workshop environment and
 includes, where possible, the Client, designers, GC, CET and DC Ops. The following steps are
 typical for a Safety in Design Risk Assessment, which should be developed and updated regularly
 during the design stages.

  · Hazard Identification
       Identify design-related hazards associated with the range of intended uses, including any
       foreseeable misuse of the product.
       Hazard identification should not be limited to one or two people's experiences of situations and
       can include the following:
       - Research to help in the identification of hazards and assessment of risks and controls,
       - Consultation with all parties involved in the project including where possible contractors
            familiar with the construction works and fabricators/suppliers of the equipment being
            proposed.
       - Guidance material including codes of practice, technical standards or industry protocols
       - Hazard identification and risk assessment tools. These should be selected based on the
            context of the safety in design analysis and include the following:
                  - Hazard and Operability studies (Hazop)
                  - Event Tree analysis (ETA)
                  - Fault Tree Analysis (FTA)
                  - Fault Mode Effects analysis (FMEA)
                  - Preliminary hazard Analysis (PHA)
                  - Human Reliability Analysis (HRA)
                  - Construction Hazard Assessment Implication Review (CHAIR)
                  -

  · Assess the Risk of harm
       - Define the risks arising from design related hazards
       - Identify and evaluate any existing controls
       - Develop the initial risk rating for which typical rating tables are shown below.

       It must be noted that Safety in Design is different from most other safety assessments because
       we are dealing with the Client's safety rather than our own individual safety. As such is it is
       important for designers to consider wherever possible the Client's and other stakeholders' risk
       tolerance, eg through utilising their risk matrix for evaluating risks.

AirTrunk framework | Safety in Design  Page | 9
Consequence Rating Table

Risk Impact         Design Impact Parameters**
5 - Extreme
                    Permanent or significantly life altering injuries/illness
4 - High            Injury resulting in >6 months impairment, permanent disablement or
                    fatality
3 - Moderate        Serious impairment injury/illness
2 - Minor           Injury resulting in >2 weeks but <6 months temporary
                    impairment
                    Temporary impairment injury/illness
                    Injury resulting in <2 weeks temporary impairment

                    Minor injuries
                    Injury with no impairment

1 - Low             No injuries

** To employees or third-parties, including suppliers, contractors, vendors, customers etc

Likelihood Rating Table

Likelihood          Design Likelihood Parameters
Parameters

5 - Almost Certain The design failure will likely occur in most circumstances.

4 - Likely          The design failure will probably occur at least once.

3 - Possible        The design failure could be expected to occur at some time.

2 - Unlikely        The design failure could occur at some time but is not expected.

1 - Rare            The design failure may occur only in exceptional circumstances.

Safety in Design Heatmap/Risk Matrix

RISK MATRIX                                         CONSEQUENCE
LIKELIHOOD
                           Low               Minor  Moderate        High             Extreme
           Rare        1 - Low            2 - Low   4 - Low      7 - Low           11 - Low
         Unlikely      3 - Low            5 - Low                                16 - Medium
        Possible       6 - Low         9 -Medium    8 - Medium 12 - Medium         20 - High
          Likely    10 - Medium        14 -Medium                                23 - Extreme
    Almost Certain  15 - Medium         19 - High   13 -Medium 17 - High         25 - Extreme

                                                    18 - High 21 - High

                                                    22 - High 24 -Extreme

AirTrunk framework | Safety in Design                                                       Page | 10
Safety in Design Risk Rating ResponseTable

       Rating      Response                                                       Accept criteria
   Low         Risk is considered to be `Low'. No further                  N/A
               action is necessary other than to ensure
               that the controls are maintained.                           Head of affected area EG:
                                                                           Construction risk = PM
   Moderate    Management to continuously monitor                          DC Ops Risk = DCOM
               existing controls to ensure they remain
               adequate and effective.                                     Executive Level of
               The risk may be acceptable but redesign or                  affecting risk
               other changes should be considered if                       EG
               reasonably practical (time, money and                       Construction risk=CDO
               effort).                                                    DC Ops Risk = COO

               Further analysis should be performed to                     CEO/Deputy CEO sign off
               give better estimate of the risk.                           against risk

               Where this risk cannot be further mitigated
               then the Head of effected area is required
               to sign off against the risk

   High        High risk, not normally acceptable. Further
   Extreme     analysis to be performed to give better
               estimate of the risk. If this analysis shows
               unacceptable or medium risk then redesign
               or other changes should be introduced to
               reduce the criticality. Considerable
               resources may have to be allocated to
               identify additional control measures.
               Where this risk cannot be further mitigated
               then executive level sign off required
               Unacceptable risk Level. Risk to be
               immediately assessed and further
               mitigated. Extreme risks may only be
               accepted by CEO/Deputy CEO

Safety in Design Typical Initial Risk Rating Table with worked example

   Design Hazards Design                              Risk     Existing         Initial Risk Rating

Referenc                               Life Cycle  Descriptio  Control

e                                      Stage       n           Measures         C  L RR

SYD2B-001 Cleaning 30%                             Working from Training, PPE,

             exterior                              heights to Scaffolding       5 x 2 = 10

             windows                               clean

                                                   windows

6.4 ELIMINATE HAZARDS AND CONTROL RISKS

       Using the hierarchy of controls detailed in the table below, eliminate or reduce risks by using
       recognised appropriate standards relating to the design and record justifications in a Safety in
       Design Risk Assessment for the latent risks, similar to that shown above. Many health and safety
       issues identified may be related to work practice and are not covered or fully understood by
       designers. Controls for these hazards should be developed in consultation with appropriate
       stakeholders, usually Data Centre operations specialists.

       The initial focus should be to eliminate the identified risks by amending the design. Where this is
       not practicable, designers are required to reduce the risk to so far as reasonably practicable. This
       requires the designer to consider what they know, or ought reasonably to know, about the risk
       and any ways of reducing the risk.

AirTrunk framework | Safety in Design                                              Page | 11
Identify and assess Potential Control Measures where further risk management is required to
treat risks so far as reasonably practicable. Record the decision and justification as to whether
the potential control measures are to be implemented or rejected. Potential Control Measures
should be identified where existing controls (eg codes or standards) do not eliminate or reduce
the risk so far as reasonably practicable. Recognised codes and standards, which regulate the
design of buildings and structures, may be used initially to eliminate or reduce risk.

The person responsible for the control measures should be recorded with a decision or status of
the risk.

Hierarchy of Risk Control Measures
  Eliminate the Hazard ELIMINATE - Get rid of the hazard out of the workplace.

Change the Way                         SUBSTITUTE - Try to replace or change plant, substances or
the Work is Done                       materials to lower the risk from the hazard.

Personal Protective                    Try to ISOLATE the hazard
Equipment
                                       ENGINEERING CONTROL - Design and install equipment to counteract
                                       the hazard

                                       ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL Arrange work so people spend less time
                                       around the hazard and monitor their understanding of the hazard
                                       and the controls. Process such as SOPs
                                       PPE Have people wear protective equipment and clothing while near the
                                       hazard

Safety in Design Control Measures and Residual Risk Rating Table with worked example

Potential Control                      Responsibilit By  Decision Residual              Comment
                                                         / Status Risk                  s
Measures (Elimination, y               Whe
                                                                       Rating
Substitution, Isolation,               n
                                                                       C L RR
Engineering Controls,

Administrative Controls,

          PPE)

Install windows the can open GC        RFS               agreed 1 x 1 = 1               Risk
                                                                                        eliminated
inwards so exteriors surfaces

can be cleaned from within the

building

7 DEALING WITH RESIDUAL RISKS

       The residual risk is the level of risk that should be remaining and transferred
       at the completion of design after all Control Measures have been
       successfully implemented.

Control Measures should be applied according to feasibility and to the point where the cost is
not disproportionate to the risk reduction achieved. In order to decide which risks are feasible
for effective risk reduction, the designer will need to take into account:
- The controls already in place to minimise the consequences of the risks;
- The consequences and the costs of managing the risks versus leaving them untreated;
- Benefits and opportunities presented by the risks; including availability,

     suitability and cost of options which may also include innovative design
     solutions;
- The risks borne by other stakeholders.

The decision on when a risk has been reduced so far as is reasonably
practicable is normally straightforward for the majority of risks but in some
borderline cases can be a complex assessment.

AirTrunk framework | Safety in Design                                                   Page | 12
8 MONITOR AND REVIEW

       The Safety in Design Risk Assessment should be maintained throughout the job, keeping the
       status of control measures and the residual risks at a current level. Review critical risks as part
       of the regular job management process and undertake a detailed review at critical design points
       (eg prior to commencing drawings, end of concept design, approved for tender/construction
       drawings).

       The designer should review control measures to monitor whether risks have eliminated or the
       risk in the design reduced to "so far as reasonably practicable", otherwise further control
       measures need to be implemented.

       Documentation is a means to an end and not the end in itself and the reporting of the SiD
       should include the following key information:
       - The stage of project affected (i.e. construction, commissioning, operations and

            maintenance);
       - Details of each hazard and the identified risk being managed;
       - The existing control measures for each identified risk;
       - The estimated severity of the consequence and the likelihood of each hazard.
       - The decision and justification as to whether the potential control measures are

            implemented or rejected
       - The residual risk remaining once the potential control measures are implemented
       - All safety related decisions, including justifications for why Potential Control Measures are

            not selected, should also be included within the Safety in Design Risk assessment

8.1 COMMUNICATE AND CONSULT

 The Safety in Design Risk Assessment is a means by which the residual risks that have been
 treated so far as reasonably practicable can be communicated to all parties at the end of the
 design. AirTrunk should be consulted at all stages of the design for effective management of risks
 and decisions on the implementation of control measures.
 The following statement should be used as guidance when considering communications:

          "The effort devoted to planning and managing health and safety should be in proportion to
          the risks and complexity associated with the project. When deciding what you need to do to
          comply with requirements, your focus should always be on action necessary to reduce and
          manage risks. Any paperwork produced should help with communication and risk
          management. Paperwork which adds little to the management of risk is a waste of effort, and
          can be a dangerous distraction from the real business of risk reduction and management."

 It is, therefore, expedient to ensure that the spreadsheets or reports developed for Safety in Design
 are easily managed and understood in order to enhance the communication for the management of
 risks in the design of projects.

9 WHAT IS THE IMPACT FOR DESIGNERS AND GENERAL
    CONTRACTORS?

 In complying with the requirements of safety in design legislation (where applicable), designers and
 general contractors are to consider:
 - Which risks are within their scope and control;
 - AirTrunk Interaction ­ the risks being addressed generally relate to the AirTrunk site and

        staff, and therefore AirTrunk stakeholders need to be involved in the process, i.e. direct input
        into risk identification (including workshops) and risk reduction/management;
 - A systematic and formalised approach should be adopted to managing risks dependent on the
        type of risks;
 - Where it is not reasonably practicable to eliminate a risk associated with a design's lifecycle,
        then the risk should be reduced so far as reasonably practicable.

AirTrunk framework | Safety in Design  Page | 13
10 CONCLUSIONS

 Safety in design covers all stages in the life cycle for which there are a number of people involved
 including the owner, designer, fabricator, constructor and operator. Each of these personnel are
 responsible for safety in design in various stages. We are living in a litigious world for which safety
 requires more than just following codes or standards.

 These issues emphasise the importance of Safety in Design at all stages of a project's life and the
 need for effective communication and consultation between all parties involved with the design,
 operation and maintenance of the Data Centre project.

AirTrunk framework | Safety in Design  Page | 14
